# FathomAI - Mobility API (v 5.0.1)

## Overview
FathomAI provides this limited implementation of its Mobility API to demonstrate the core functionality to potential customers.

The API requests described in this document enable clients to generate targeted injury prevention and recovery __Activities__ for an athlete based on one or all of the following elements.

* __Symptoms__ - information about the athlete's muscular stress that may be in response to training, posture or other habitual movements 
* __Workout Sessions__ - information about an athlete's training volume, intensity, and movements

__Historical Analysis__:  As the above information is gathered over time, Fathom's analytics also use historical patterns in pain/soreness and workouts to identify underlying imbalances unique to the athlete which influence the creation of their __Activities__.

__Sports Science Guidelines__: The __Activities__ deliver exercises and dosage optimized for efficacy, in a sequence consistent with sports science research to achieve one or multiple of the following goals: expedite tissue recovery, reduce symptoms, and prevent injury. __Activity__ efficacy may be influenced by your implementation - access to instructions, precautions and contraindications, timing relative to training.  To ensure the efficacy of each client’s implementation, Fathom will provide guideline materials containing research-based and clinical-best-practice-based recommendations.

__Dosage & Duration__: The recommended dosages provided for each exercise are associated with three different __Activity__ durations corresponding to minimal, optimal, and comprehensive achievement of the athlete’s goals. Sequences are designed to achieve each athlete's unique combination of goals with relative priority based on the severity of their need. Activities can be further configured to include / exclude each goal, allowing the content provider or athlete to customize their experience based on available time and/or preference.

__Exercise Types__: The __Activities__ include exercises such as foam rolling, static stretching, active stretching, dynamic stretching, targeted muscle activation, and integrated movements personalized for the athlete, for that day. 

#### Contents
This documentation is divided into the following sections:<br/>

I. Common Provisions<br/>
II. Movement Prep<br/>
III. Mobility WOD (Workout of the Day)<br/>
IV. Responsive Recovery<br/>
V. Improving Personalization<br/>
VI. Appendix <br/>

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## I.  Common provisions

#### Terminology

The terminology of [RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt) (specifically __must__, __should__, __may__ and their negatives) applies.  The word __will__, when applied to the Mobility API ("the API"), has the same meaning as __must__.

#### Protocol

The API supports communication over HTTPS only.  Requests sent via HTTP will be redirected to HTTPS connections.

#### Encoding

The API supports communication using JSON encoding only.  The client __must__ submit the headers `Content-Type: application/json` and `Accept: application/json` for all requests.  Failure to do so __will__ result in a `415 Unsupported Media Type` response.  The API __will__ include the header `Content-Type: application/json` with its response.

#### Authentication

Unless otherwise specified, the endpoints in the API are authenticated by a JWT bearer token.  

The client __must__ submit the header `Authorization: <JWT>` with all requests. Failure to do so, or submitting an invalid or expired JWT, __will__ result in a `401 Unauthorized` response.  

Tokens generated by partners must follow the guidelines specified below.  It is expected that partners will normally generate and sign their own JWTs for their clients, providing appropriate authorization for each athlete in accordance with their business and compliance requirements.

##### Signing keys

In order to access the API demonstration, FathomAI will provide prospective partners with a private key to use (only for this demonstration).

Prior to integrating with the full Plans API, each partner  __must__ supply a set of one or more public keys with which they will sign clients' JWT credentials.  This __must__ take the form of an [RFC 7517](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517) JSON Web Key Set document, for example:

```json
{
    "keys": [
        {
            "kid": "fathom_001",
            "alg": "RS256",
            "kty": "RSA",
            "use": "sig",
            "e": "AQAB",
            "n": "snrCqqc2tC......Z29H9DBLIQ",
            "_env": ["dev", "test"]
        },
        {
            "kid": "fathom_002",
            "alg": "RS256",
            "kty": "RSA",
            "use": "sig",
            "e": "AQAB",
            "n": "yuHDihazrP......UuEPOofbVQ",
            "_env": "production"
        }
    ]
}
```

Each key within the key set  __must__ have a `kid` field matching the regular expression `^([a-z][a-z0-9\-]{3,31})_([a-z0-9\-]+)$`, where the first group of the expression is the partner's Provider Code.  

Each key within the key set  __must__ have a `use` field set to `sig` if the key is to be used for signing JWTs.  Partners __should not__ include keys with other values in the key set.

At the present time the only algorithm from the  [RFC 7518](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518#section-3) list supported is RSA-256, so the value of the `alg` field for each key in the key set __must__ be `RS256`.  We hope to support at least `ES256` in the near future.

Partners __may__ include the non-standardized fields `_nbf` and `_exp` in key definitions; if these fields are provided, they __must__ follow the semantics of the corresponding JWT claim fields in  [RFC7519](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.3), and the API __will__ interpret them similarly (that is to say, a JWT with an `iat` value falling before the corresponding key's `nbf` value or after its `exp` value, will not be considered valid).  This allows partners to perform key rotation in an orderly fashion.

Partners __may__ include the non-standardized field `_env` in key definitions; if this field is provided the value  __must__ be a String matching the regular expression `^[a-z0-9]+$` or an array of such Strings, and the API  __will__ interpret this as a list of the environments where the key should be accepted.  This allows partners to use different signing keys for production and non-production environments.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

##### JWT claims

The JWTs provided by clients  __must__ contain the following claims:

* `iss`, which __must__ be a String matching the regular expression `^([a-z][a-z0-9\-]{3,31})_([a-z0-9\-]+)$`, where the first group of the expression is the partner's Provider Code.  
* `aud`, which __must__ be a String matching the regular expression `^fathom(_[a-z0-9]+)?$` (or an array containing such a String).  If the group is provided (eg `fathom_production`), the API __will__ treat the second part as an environment specifier, and __will__ only accept as valid JWTs targeted at its own environment (for instance, the production API will only accept tokens with an `aud` value of `fathom` and/or `fathom_production`).
* `iat` __must__ be specified.
* `exp` __must__ be specified.  The total period of validity of the JWT (ie the time range between the lesser of `iat` and `nfb`, and `exp`) __must not__ be greater than 86400 seconds.
* `sub`, which __must__ be a Uuid identifying the athlete on whose behalf the client is acting.  In general the API will only allow requests which correspond to actions affecting this user.
* `scope`, which __must__ be a String containing a space-separated list of Scopes, where each Scope is a String matching the regular expression `^[a-z][a-z0-9\.:]*$`.  The following scopes are recognised by the API:
   * `fathom.plans:read`: provides access to read-only functionality for the athlete identified by the `sub` claim
   * `fathom.plans:write`: provides access to write functionality for the athlete identified by the `sub` claim.  This is a superset of `fathom.plans:read`.
   * `fathom.plans:service`: provides access to all functionality for all athletes.  JWTs with this scope are subject to additional validation conditions described below.

##### Service tokens

Partners __may__ interact with the API on a business-to-business basis instead of, or in addition to, building clients which allow athletes to interact with the API directly.  Partners' private servers __may__ authenticate such requests using a JWT carrying the `fathom.plans:service` scope.  Such tokens must meet the following additional validation conditions:

* The value of the `sub` field  __must__ be the String `00000000-0000-4000-8000-000000000000`.
* The total period of validity of the JWT  __must not__ be greater than 600 seconds.


#### General responses

In addition to the AWS API Gateway responses and the specific responses for each endpoint, the server __may__ respond with one of the following HTTP responses:

* `400 Bad Request` with `Status` header equal to `InvalidSchema`, if the JSON body of the request does not match the requirements of the endpoint.
* `403 Forbidden` with `Status` header equal to `Forbidden`, if the user is not allowed to perform the requested action.
* `404 Unknown` with `Status` header equal to `UnknownEndpoint`, if an invalid endpoint was requested.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

#### Schema

The following simple types __may__ be used in requests and responses:

* `string`, `number`, `integer`, `boolean`: as defined in the [JSON Schema](http://json-schema.org) standard.
* `UUID`: a `string` matching the regular expression `^[0-9a-f]{8}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{12}$`, that is, the string representation of an [RFC 4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122) UUID.
* `Datetime`: a `string` matching the regular expression `/\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}T\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}(Z|+\d{2}:\d{2})/` and representing a date and time in full  [ISO 8601](https://www.iso.org/iso-8601-date-and-time-format.html) format.


<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## II. Movement Prep

### Overview & Description

The Movement Prep endpoint can be called to request a Movement Integration Preparation Activity which is assembled to restore proper muscle length-tension relationships and improve neuromuscular control to encourage proper muscle activation and proper movement.

_Movement Integration Preparation Activity_:

__Expected Duration__: durations will vary based on the athlete need’s severity and diversity.

* Efficient - typically 2 to 8 minutes, 
* Complete - typically 5 to 13 minutes
* Comprehensive - typically 10 minutes or more.

__Exercise Types__: foam rolling, static stretching, active stretching or dynamic flexibility, and isolated activation based on the athlete’s needs.

Generating a _Movement Integration Preparation Activity_ requires the following data elements: 

* Local date time 
* Planned workout

Additional optional elements that when included, provides enhanced personalization to the athlete's needs: 

* Today's Symptoms

The _Movement Integration Preparation Activity_ will also consider prior completed workouts and prior logged symptoms.

### Basic Case

Requesting a _Movement Integration Preparation Activity_ requires the local date time of the athlete and one planned session. 

The planned workout session may be reported using one of two formats:

* Use the __Detailed Session__ (`session_type: 7`) format for workouts for which you have detailed content. Most workouts completed in your service to the athlete should use this format.

* Use the __Simple Session__  (`session_type: 6`) format for workouts for which you do not have detailed workout content but that is useful to consider as training loads that should affect the recovery plan (i.e. workouts you access through HealthKit, Google Fit, Samsung Fit or that are completed in your service with a low resolution of information)

This will generate a _Movement Prep Integration Activity_ that takes into consideration the planned workout and athlete's history. 

_For more information about  __session__ formats, please see the Appendix._
 
##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/movement_prep/{User UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "session": session
}
```
* `event_date_time` __should__ reflect the local time that request was submitted
* `session` __should__ reflect the schema of the Simple or Detailed Session format as outlined in the Appendix.

```
POST /plans/{version}/movement_prep/{User UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2018-12-10T17:45:24-05:00",
    "session":{
                "event_date": "2019-01-12T10:41:57-05:00",
                "session_type": 6,
                "sport_name": 1,
                "duration": 14,
                "description": "Evening Practice",
                "calories": 100,
                "distance": 200,
                "end_date": "2019-01-12T10:54:57-05:00"
            }
}
```

##### Response
 
 If the request was successful, the Service __will__ respond with HTTP Status `201 Created`, with a body having the following schema:

```
 {
    "movement_prep": movement_prep
 }
```

* `movement_prep` will have the following schema:

```
{
    "movement_prep_id": UUID,
    "user_id": UUID,
    "created_date_time": Datetime,
    "training_session_id: UUID,
    "movement_integration_prep": movement_integration_prep
}
```

* `movement_integration_prep` will have the schema as defined in the Appendix.

### Including Today's Symptoms

If the client includes the optional __symptoms__ element, a _Movement Integration Preparation Activity_ will be returned with consideration for the symptoms the athlete is experiencing today and the projected, resulting response to the upcoming workout.

##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/movement_prep/{User UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "session": session,
    "symptoms": [symptom, symptom]
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__ reflect the local time that request was submitted
* `session` __should__ reflect the schema of the Simple or Detailed Session format as outlined in the Appendix.
* `symptoms` __should__ reflect a list of symptoms(`symptom`). Length __could__ be 0.
* `symptom` __should__ follow the schema for Symptom as defined in the Appendix.

```
POST /plans/{version}/movement_prep/{User UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2018-12-10T17:45:24-05:00",
    "session": {
                "event_date": "2019-01-12T10:41:57-05:00",
                "session_type": 6,
                "sport_name": 1,
                "duration": 14,
                "description": "Evening Practice",
                "calories": 100,
                "distance": 200,
                "end_date": "2019-01-12T10:54:57-05:00"
            },
    "symptoms":[
            {
                "body_part": 14,
                "side": 2
                "tight": null,
                "knots": null,
                "ache": 3,
                "sharp": 6,
            }]
}
```

##### Response
 
If the request was successful, the Service __will__ respond with HTTP Status `201 Created`, with a body having the following schema:

```
 {
    "movement_prep": movement_prep
 }
```

* `movement_prep` will have the following schema:

```
{
    "movement_prep_id": UUID,
    "user_id": UUID,
    "created_date_time": Datetime,
    "training_session_id": UUID,
    "movement_integration_prep": movement_integration_prep
}
```

* `movement_integration_prep` will have the schema as defined in the Appendix.


## III. Mobility WOD (Workout of the Day)

### Overview & Description

The Mobility Workout of the Day (Mobility WOD)  endpoint can be called to request an _Active Rest Activity_ which is assembled to achieve one or more of the following: retain and restore available range of motion, promote the removal of makers associated with post-exercise soreness and muscle damage (lactate & creatine kinase), enhance neuromuscular efficiency, reeducate optimum neuromuscular control throughout full range of motion.

_Active Rest Activity_:

__Expected Duration__: durations will vary based on the athlete need’s severity and diversity.

* Efficient - typically 5 to 13 minutes, 
* Complete - typically 8 to 19 minutes
* Comprehensive - typically 20 minutes or more.

__Exercise Types__: foam rolling, static stretching, isolated activation, and static integrate exercises based on the athlete’s needs.

Generating an _Active Rest Activity_ requires the following data elements: 

* Local date time

Additional optional elements that when included, provides enhanced personalization to the athlete's needs: 

* Workout Sessions completed 
* Today's Symptoms

The _Active Rest Activity_ will also consider prior completed workouts and prior logged symptoms.

### Basic Case

An Active Rest Activity can be requested by only submitting the local date time of the athlete. This will generate an Active Rest Activity based on the athlete's prior completed workouts and prior logged symptoms. In the case that an athlete has no recent history, FathomAI returns an Active Rest Activity targeting common areas of immobility.

##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/mobility_wod/{User UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__ reflect the local date and time when the request is submitted.

```
POST /plans/{version}/mobility_wod/{User UUID} HTTP/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJ0eX...xA8

{
    "event_date_time": "2018-12-10T17:45:24-05:00"
}
```

##### Response
 
 If the write was successful, the Service  __will__ respond with HTTP Status `201 Created`, with a body having the following schema:
 
```
 {
    "mobility_wod": mobility_wod
 }
```

* `mobility_wod` will have the following schema:

```
{
    "mobility_wod_id": UUID,
    "user_id": UUID,
    "created_date_time": Datetime,
    "training_session_ids": []
    "active_rest": active_rest
}
```

* `active_rest` will have the schema as defined in the Appendix.

### Including Completed Workout Session(s)

If the client includes the optional __sessions__ element, an Active Rest Activity will be returned with consideration for the workout session(s) the athlete completed and their history.

Completed workout session may be reported using one of two formats:

* Use the __Detailed Session__ ( `session_type: 7` ) format for workouts for which you have detailed content including exercise duration, pace, sets, reps, resistance. Most workouts completed in your service to the athlete should use this format.

* Use the __Simple Session__ ( `session_type: 6` ) format for workouts for which you do not have detailed workout content but that is useful to consider as training loads that should affect the recovery plan (i.e. workouts you access through HealthKit, Google Fit, Samsung Fit or that are completed in your service with a low resolution of information) 

_For more information about  __session__ formats, please see the Appendix._
 
##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/mobility_wod/{User UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "sessions": [session, session],
    "user_age": integer,
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__ reflect the local time that the request was submitted
* `session` __should__ reflect the schema of the Simple or Detailed Session formats as outlined in the Appendix.
* `user_age` __should__ be provided if heart rate data is included for any session

```
POST /plans/{version}/mobility_wod/{User UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2018-12-10T17:45:24-05:00",
    "user_age": 28,
    "sessions":[
            {
                "event_date": "2019-01-12T10:41:57-05:00",
                "session_type": 6,
                "sport_name": 1,
                "duration": 14,
                "description": "Evening Practice",
                "calories": 100,
                "distance": 200,
                "session_RPE": 5,
                "end_date": "2019-01-12T10:54:57-05:00"
            },
            {
                "event_date": "2019-01-12T10:41:57-05:00",
                "session_type": 7,
                "duration": 840,
                "description": "Evening Practice",
                "calories": 100,
                "distance": 200,
                "session_RPE": 7,
                "end_date": "2019-02-12T10:54:57-05:00",
                "hr_data":  [
                            {"value": 153,
                             "startDate": "2019-01-12T10:43:08.490-0500",
                             "endDate": "2019-01-12T10:43:08.490-0500"
                             },
                        ],
                "workout_program_module": {
                                "workout_sections": [{
                                    "name": "Upper Body Work",
                                    "duration_seconds": 360,
                                    "start_date_time": "2019-01-12T10:43:08-05:00",
                                    "end_date_time": "2019-01-12T12:17:12-05:00"
                                    "exercises": [
                                        {
                                            "id": "1",
                                            "name": "Bent over Row",
                                            "weight_measure": 2,
                                            "weight": 150,
                                            "sets": 2,
                                            "reps_per_set": 10,
                                            "unit_of_measure": 1,
                                            "movement_id": "2356",
                                            "bilateral": true,
                                            "side": 0,
                                            "rpe": 5.0
                                        }
                                        ]
                                }]
                            }
                }
                
            ]
}
```

##### Response
 
 If the request was successful, the Service  __will__ respond with HTTP Status `201 Created`, with a body having the following schema:
 
```
 {
    "mobility_wod": mobility_wod
 }
```

* `mobility_wod` will have the following schema:

```
{
    "mobility_wod_id": UUID,
    "user_id": UUID,
    "created_date_time": Datetime,
    "training_session_ids": [UUID, UUID]
    "active_rest": active_rest
}
```

* `active_rest` will have the schema as defined in the Appendix.



### Including Today's Symptoms
If the client includes the optional __symptoms__ element, an Active Rest Activity will be returned with consideration for the symptoms the athlete is experiencing today.

##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/mobility_wod/{User UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "symptoms": [symptom, symptom]
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__ reflect the local time that request was submitted
* `symptoms` __should__ reflect a list of symptoms(`symptom`). Length __could__ be 0.
* `symptom` __should__ follow the schema for Symptom as defined in the Appendix.


```
POST /plans/{version}/mobility_wod/{User UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2018-12-10T17:45:24-05:00",
    "symptoms":[
            {
                "body_part": 14,
                "side": 2
                "tight": null,
                "knots": null,
                "ache": 3,
                "sharp": 6,
            }]
}
```

##### Response
 
If the request was successful, the Service  __will__ respond with HTTP Status `201 Created`, with a body having the following schema:
 
```
 {
    "mobility_wod": mobility_wod
 }
```

* `mobility_wod` will have the following schema:

```
{
    "mobility_wod_id": UUID,
    "user_id": UUID,
    "created_date_time": Datetime,
    "training_session_ids": [],
    "active_rest": active_rest
}
```

* `active_rest` will have the schema as defined in the Appendix.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## IV. Responsive Recovery

### Overview & Description

The Responsive Recovery endpoint can be called to request Activities assembled to facilitate and expedite the removal of waste and recruitment of nutrients to rebuild muscle tissue.  It will include either the Active Rest Activity or Active Recovery Activity dependent on the athlete’s severity of need for proactive recovery. Cold Water Immersion Activity recommendations are also included to further reduce the severity of delayed onset soreness in cases of elevated need. Ice Activity recommendations are also included to decrease inflammation in cases of elevated need.

* __Active Rest__ Activity (see Mobility WOD section above )
* __Active Recovery__ Activity

    * __Expected Duration__: durations will vary based on the athlete need’s severity and diversity.
        * Efficient - typically 2 to 5 minutes, 
        * Complete - typically 4 to 8 minutes
        * Comprehensive - typically 8 minutes or more.
    * __Exercise Types__: dynamic flexibility and dynamic integrate exercises based on the athlete’s needs

* Additional Optional Content: 

    * __Cold Water Immersion Activity, Ice Activity__
    
Generating Activities using the Responsive Recovery endpoint requires the following data elements: 

* Local date time 
* Completed Workout

Additional optional elements that when included, provides enhanced personalization to the athlete's needs: 

* Today's Symptoms

The Activities returned will also consider prior completed workouts and prior logged symptoms.

### Basic Case

Requesting Activities using the Responsive Recovery endpoint  requires the local date time of the athlete and one completed workout session.

The completed workout session may be reported using one of two formats:

* Use the __Detailed Session__ ( `session_type: 7` ) format for workouts for which you have detailed content including exercise duration, pace, sets, reps, resistance. Most workouts completed in your service to the athlete should use this format.

* Use the __Simple Session__ ( `session_type: 6` ) format for workouts for which you do not have detailed workout content but that is useful to consider as training loads that should affect the recovery plan (i.e. workouts you access through HealthKit, Google Fit, Samsung Fit or that are completed in your service with a low resolution of information)

The Activities returned will also consider prior completed workouts and prior logged symptoms.

_For more information about  __session__ formats, please see the Appendix._
 
##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/responsive_recovery/{User UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "session": session,
    "user_age": integer
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__ reflect the local time that request was submitted
* `session` __should__ reflect the schema of the Simple or Detailed Session format as outlined in the Appendix.
* `user_age` __should__ be provided if heart rate data is included for any sessions

```
POST /plans/{version}/responsive_recovery/{User UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2018-12-10T17:45:24-05:00",
    "user_age": 28,
    "session":
            {
                "event_date": "2019-01-12T10:41:57-05:00",
                "session_type": 7,
                "duration": 840,
                "description": "Evening Practice",
                "calories": 100,
                "distance": 200,
                "session_RPE": 7,
                "end_date": "2019-02-12T10:54:57-05:00",
``` 
```
                "hr_data":  [
                            {"value": 153,
                             "startDate": "2019-01-12T10:43:08.490-0500",
                             "endDate": "2019-01-12T10:43:08.490-0500"
                             },
                        ],
                "workout_program_module": {
                                "workout_sections": [{
                                    "name": "Upper Body Work",
                                    "duration_seconds": 360,
                                    "start_date_time": "2019-01-12T10:43:08-05:00",
                                    "end_date_time": "2019-01-12T12:17:12-05:00"
                                    "exercises": [
                                        {
                                            "id": "1",
                                            "name": "Bent over Row",
                                            "weight_measure": 2,
                                            "weight": 150,
                                            "sets": 2,
                                            "reps_per_set": 10,
                                            "unit_of_measure": 1,
                                            "movement_id": "2356",
                                            "bilateral": true,
                                            "side": 0,
                                            "rpe": 5.0
                                        }
                                        ]
                                }]
                            }
                }
}
```

##### Response
 
If the request was successful, the Service  __will__ respond with HTTP Status `201 Created`, with a body having the following schema:

```
 {
    "responsive_recovery": responsive_recovery
 }
```

* `responsive_recovery` will have the following schema:

```
{
    "responsive_recovery_id": UUID,
    "user_id": UUID,
    "created_date_time": Datetime,
    "training_session_id": UUID,
    "active_rest": active_rest,
    "active_recovery": active_recovery,
    "ice": ice,
    "cold_water_immersion": cold_water_immersion
}
```

* `active_rest`, `active_recovery`,`ice`, and `cold_water_immersion` could be null or will have the schema as defined in the Appendix.


### Including Today's Symptoms

If the client includes the optional __symptoms__ element, Responsive Recovery Activities will be returned with consideration for the symptoms the athlete is experiencing today.

##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/responsive_recovery/{User UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "session: session,
    "symptoms": [symptom, symptom]
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__ reflect the local time that request was submitted
* `session` __should__ reflect the schema of the Simple or Detailed Session format as outlined in the Appendix.
* `symptom` __should__ follow the schema for Symptom as defined in the Appendix.

```
POST /plans/{version}/responsive_recovery/{User UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2018-12-10T17:45:24-05:00",
    "session":{
                    "event_date": "2019-01-12T10:41:57-05:00",
                    "session_type": 6,
                    "sport_name": 1,
                    "duration": 14,
                    "description": "Evening Practice",
                    "calories": 100,
                    "distance": 200,
                    "session_RPE": 8,
                    "end_date": "2019-01-12T10:54:57-05:00"
                },
    "symptoms":[{
                    "body_part": 14,
                    "side": 2
                    "tight": null,
                    "knots": null,
                    "ache": 3,
                    "sharp": 6,
                }]
}
```

##### Response
 
If the request was successful, the Service  __will__ respond with HTTP Status `201 Created`, with a body having the following schema:
 
```
 {
    "responsive_recovery": responsive_recovery
 }
```

* `responsive_recovery` will have the following schema:

```
{
    "responsive_recovery_id": UUID,
    "user_id": UUID,
    "created_date_time": Datetime,
    "training_session_id": UUID,
    "active_rest": active_rest,
    "active_recovery": active_recovery,
    "ice": ice,
    "cold_water_immersion": cold_water_immersion
}
```

* `active_rest`, `active_recovery`,`ice`, and `cold_water_immersion` could be null or will have the schema as defined in the Appendix.


<!-- TODO - paul: title and language -->
### Update Responsive Recovery

The Update Responsive Recovery endpoint can be called to update workout session information and/or report new symptom(s). Responsive Recovery Activities will be returned with consideration for the newly provided information.
<!-- TODO - paul: should we mention something about SOFlete specific use case where this will be used to update planned session? -->
##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/responsive_recovery/{User UUID}/{Responsive Recovery UUID}/update`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "session: session,
    "symptoms": [symptom, symptom]
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__ reflect the local time that request was submitted
* `session` __should__ reflect the schema of the Simple or Detailed Session format as outlined in the Appendix.
* `symptom` __should__ follow the schema for Symptom as defined in the Appendix.

```
POST /plans/{version}/responsive_recovery/{User UUID}/{Resp Rec UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2018-12-10T17:45:24-05:00",
    "session":{
                    "session_id": "5bbcc8da-181a-4a2b-bc72-a7210d5be757"
                    "event_date": "2019-01-12T10:41:57-05:00",
                    "session_type": 6,
                    "sport_name": 1,
                    "duration": 14,
                    "description": "Evening Practice",
                    "calories": 100,
                    "distance": 200,
                    "session_RPE": 8,
                    "end_date": "2019-01-12T10:54:57-05:00"
                },
    "symptoms":[{
                    "body_part": 14,
                    "side": 2
                    "tight": null,
                    "knots": null,
                    "ache": 3,
                    "sharp": 6,
                }]
}
```

##### Response
 
If the request was successful, the Service  __will__ respond with HTTP Status `201 Created`, with a body having the following schema:
 
```
 {
    "responsive_recovery": responsive_recovery
 }
```

* `responsive_recovery` will have the following schema:

```
{
    "responsive_recovery_id": UUID,
    "user_id": UUID,
    "created_date_time": Datetime,
    "training_session_id": UUID,
    "active_rest": active_rest,
    "active_recovery": active_recovery,
    "ice": ice,
    "cold_water_immersion": cold_water_immersion
}
```

* `active_rest`, `active_recovery`,`ice`, and `cold_water_immersion` could be null or will have the schema as defined in the Appendix.



<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## V. Improving Personalization

### Overview & Description
FathomAI Mobility API can provide greater personalization, diversity, and granularity  of activities for an athlete when more information is supplied by a client. Some APIs allow for clients to provide more information about an athlete as it becomes available but does not lead to a new recovery plan.

### Symptom

Consider severity ratings for tightness, knots, aches, and sharp as follows: 1-3 as Mild, 4-6 as Moderate, 7-9 as Severe, 10 as Max. When symptoms are reported with a severity greater than 4, Activity’s exercises will be restricted to avoid aggravation of symptoms. 
##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/report_symptoms/{User UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `POST`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "symptoms": [symptom, symptom]
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__  be a Datetime and reflect the local time the request was submitted
* `symptoms` __should__ reflect a list of symptoms(`symptom`) as defined in the Appendix

```
POST /plans/{version}/report_symptoms/{User UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2019-10-29T17:45:24-05:00",
    "symptoms":[
        {
            "body_part": 18,
            "side": 0,
            "tight": 4,
            "knots": null,
            "sharp": null,
            "ache": null
        }
    ]
}
```


##### Response
 
If the write was successful, the Service  __will__ respond with HTTP Status `200 OK`, with a body having the following schema:

```
{
    {'message': 'success'}
}
```

<!-- TODO - paul : title and language -->
### Update Workout

The Update Workout endpoint can be called to update details of a planned or completed workout when new information becomes available.  This updated information will improve future personalization.
##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/plans/{version}/training_session/{User UUID}/{Session UUID}`. The request method __must__ be `PATCH`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object having the following schema:

```
{
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "session": session
}
```

* `event_date_time` __should__  be a Datetime and reflect the local time the request was submitted
* `session` __should__ reflect the schema of the Simple or Detailed Session format as outlined in the Appendix.

```
PATCH /plans/{version}/training_session/{User UUID}/{Session UUID} HTTPS/1.1
Host: apis.demo.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "event_date_time": "2019-10-29T17:45:24-05:00",
    "session": {
                    "event_date": "2019-01-12T10:41:57-05:00",
                    "session_type": 6,
                    "sport_name": 1,
                    "duration": 14,
                    "description": "Evening Practice",
                    "calories": 100,
                    "distance": 200,
                    "session_RPE": 8,
                    "end_date": "2019-01-12T10:54:57-05:00"
                }
}
```


##### Response
 
If the write was successful, the Service  __will__ respond with HTTP Status `200 OK`, with a body having the following schema:

```
{
    {'message': 'success'}
}
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## VI. Appendix

### Symptoms

`symptom` __should__ have the following schema:
```
{
    "body_part": integer,
    "side": integer,
    "tight": integer,
    "knots": integer,
    "ache": integer,
    "sharp": integer
}
```

* `body_part` __should__ be an integer reflecting Body Part enumeration as defined in this Appendix
* `side` __should__ be an integer reflecting Side enumeration as defined in this Appendix
* `tight` __should__ be an integer (1-10) indicating the severity of tightness felt. If not reported, it should be `null`
* `knots` __should__ be reported for muscles (see _Enumerations_ later in this Appendix) only and __should__ be an integer (1-10) indicating the severity of discomfort caused by knots, trigger points, and muscular adhesions felt. If not reported, it should be `null`
* `ache` __should__ be an integer (1-10) indicating the severity of discomfort felt described as an ache, dull, or sore, indicating inflammation and muscle spasms are likely present. If not reported, it should be `null`
* `sharp` __should__ be an integer (1-10) indicating the severity of discomfort felt described as sharp, acute, shooting, indicating that inflammation and muscle spasms are likely present. If not reported, it should be `null`


### Workout Sessions
`session` __should__ either follow the schema of the _Simple Session_ or _Detailed Session_ format:

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

#### Simple Session Format

`session` __should__ be of the following schema when using the _Simple Session_ format:

```
{
    "event_date": Datetime,
    "session_type": integer,
    "end_date": Datetime,
    "sport_name": integer,
    "duration": integer,
    "description": string,
    "calories": integer,
    "distance": integer,
    "session_RPE": number,
    "hr_data": [hr, hr, hr],
}
```

* `event_date` __should__ reflect the start time of the start time of the session
* `session_type` __should__ reflect SessionType enumeration. For the Simple Session format, SessionType=6.
* `end_date` is an __optional__ parameter that reflects the end time of the session
* `sport_name` __should__ reflect SportName enumeration as defined in this Appendix.
* `duration` __should__ be in minutes and reflect the duration of the workout.
* `session_RPE` __should__ be an integer between 1 and 10 indicating the  _Rating of Perceived Exertion_ of the athlete during the session
* `calories` __if present__, __should__ be calories burned during the workout.
* `distance` __if present__, __should__ be distance covered during the workout.
* `hr_data` __if present__, __should__ be the heart rate data associated with the workout. Each hr will have `startDate`, `endDate` and `value`
* `description` is an __optional__ parameter to provide short description of the session

Note: `user_age` __should__ be provided if `hr_data` is supplied.  See the specific endpoint documentation for further details.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

#### Detailed Session Format

`session` __should__ be of the following schema when using the _Detailed Session_ format:

```
{
    "event_date": Datetime,
    "session_type": integer,
    "end_date": Datetime,
    "duration": integer,
    "description": string,
    "calories": integer,
    "distance": integer,
    "session_RPE": number,
    "hr_data": [hr, hr, hr],
    "workout_program_module": workout_program_module
}
```

* `event_date` __should__ reflect the start time of the start time of the session
* `session_type` __should__ reflect SessionType enumeration. For the Detailed Session format, SessionType=7.
* `end_date` is an __optional__ parameter that reflects the end time of the session
* `duration` is an __optional__ parameter in minutes and reflect the duration of the workout.
* `session_RPE` __should__ be a number between 1.0 and 10.0 indicating the  _Rating of Perceived Exertion_ of the athlete during the session
* `calories` __if present__, __should__ be calories burned during the workout.
* `distance` __if present__, __should__ be distance covered during the workout.
* `hr_data` __if present__, __should__ be the heart rate data associated with the workout. Each hr will have `startDate`, `endDate` and `value` 
* `description` is an __optional__ parameter to provide short description of the session

Note: `user_age` __should__ be provided if `hr_data` is supplied.  See the specific endpoint documentation for further details.

`workout_program_module` __should__ be of the following schema:

```
{
    "program_id": string,
    "program_module_id": string,
    "workout_sections": [workout_section, workout_section]
}
```

* `program_id` is an __optional__ parameter and is an identifier of the workout program
* `program_module_id` is an __optional__ parameter and is an identifier for the specific program module
* `workout_sections` __should__ be a list of individual _workout_section_ elements contained within the module

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

`workout_section` __should__ be of the following schema:
```
{
    "name": string,
    "duration_seconds": integer,
    "start_date_time": datetime,
    "end_date_time": datetime,
    "exercises": [exercise, exercise]
}
```

* `name` __should__ be an identifying section name
* `duration_seconds` __should__ be total time assigned or taken to complete the section
* `start_date_time` __should__ reflect the start time of the workout section
* `end_date_time` __should__ reflect the end time of the workout section
* `exercises` __should__ be a list of of all _exercise_ elements assigned within the section

`exercise` __should__ be of the following schema:
```
{
    "id": string,
    "name": string,
    "weight_measure": integer,
    "weight": number,
    "bilateral": boolean,
    "side": integer,
    "sets": integer,
    "reps_per_set": integaer,
    "unit_of_measure": integer,
    "movement_id": string,
    "rpe": number
}
```

* `id` __should__ be provider's unique identifier for the exercise
* `name` __should__ be the exercise name
* `weight_measure` __should__ be the unit external weight used is measured in either (weight in lbs, percent bodyweight or rep max)
* `weight` __should__ represent the numeric value of the weight used according to the `weight_measure` attribute
* `bilateral` __should__ be a boolean representation of whether exercise is performed on both sides
* `side` __should__ represent the side (left or right) on which the exercise is performed if `bilateral` is false
* `sets` __should__ be an integer representation of total sets of the exercise to be performed
* `reps_per_set` __should__ be an integer representing of total reps of exercise to be performed per set
* `unit_of_measure` __should__ be an integer reflecting the Unit of Measure enumeration and should indicate the unit in which the reps are measured
* `movement_id` __if present__, __should__ be an unique identifier for underlying movement associated with the exercise
* `rpe` __should__ be an number between 1.0 and 10.0 indicating the  _Rating of Perceived Exertion_ of the athlete during the exercise


### Movement Integration Prep

`movement_integration_prep` will be of following schema:

```
{
    "id" : UUID,
    "type" : integer,
    "title" : string,
    "start_date_time" : Datetime,
    "completed_date_time" : Datetime,
    "event_date_time" : Datetime,
    "completed" : boolean,
    "default_plan" : string,
    "goals" : {
        string : activity_goal,
        string : activity_goal
    },
    "exercise_phases" : [exercise_phase, exercise_phase]
}
```

* `type` __will__ be an integer reflecting Activity Type enumeration as defined in this Appendix
* `activity_goal` __will__ be an Activity Goal as defined in this Appendix
* `exercise_phase` __will__ be an Exercise Phase as defined in this Appendix

### Activity Goal

`activity_goal` will be of the following schema:

```
    "efficient_active": boolean
    "complete_active": boolean
    "comprehensive_active": boolean
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Active Rest

* `active_rest` will be of the following schema:

```
{
    "id" : UUID,
    "type" : integer,
    "title" : string,
    "start_date_time" : Datetime,
    "completed_date_time" : Datetime,
    "event_date_time" : Datetime,
    "completed" : boolean,
    "default_plan" : string,
    "goals" : {
        string : activity_goal,
        string : activity_goal
    },
    "exercise_phases" : [exercise_phase, exercise_phase]
}
```

* `type` __will__ be an integer reflecting Activity Type enumeration as defined in this Appendix
* `activity_goal` __will__ be an Activity Goal as defined in this Appendix
* `exercise_phase` __will__ be an Exercise Phase as defined in this Appendix

### Active Recovery

* `active_recovery` will be of the following schema:

```
{
    "id" : UUID,
    "type" : integer,
    "title" : string,
    "start_date_time" : Datetime,
    "completed_date_time" : Datetime,
    "event_date_time" : Datetime,
    "completed" : boolean,
    "default_plan" : string,
    "goals" : {
        string : activity_goal,
        string : activity_goal
    },
    "exercise_phases" : [exercise_phase, exercise_phase]
}
```

* `type` __will__ be an integer reflecting Activity Type enumeration as defined in this Appendix
* `activity_goal` __will__ be an Activity Goal as defined in this Appendix
* `exercise_phase` __will__ be an Exercise Phase as defined in this Appendix

### Ice

* `ice` will be of the following schema

```
{
    "body_parts": [
        {
            "body_part_location": integer,
            "side": side,
            "completed": boolean
        }
    ],
    "completed": boolean,
    "completed_date_time": Datetime,
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "minutes": integer,
    "start_date_time": Datetime,
    "goal": goal,
}
```

* `body_part_location` will be an integer reflecting the Body Part enumeration as defined in this Appendix.
* `goal` will be a goal as defined in this Appendix.

### Cold Water Immersion

* `cold_water_immersion` will be of the following schema

```
{
    "minutes": integer,
    "goals": [goal, goal],
    "start_date_time": Datetime,
    "completed_date_time": Datetime,
    "event_date_time": Datetime,
    "completed": boolean
}

```

* `goal` will be a goal as defined in this Appendix.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Exercise Phase

* `exercise_phase` will be of the following schema:

```
{
    "type" : integer,
    "name" : string,
    "title" : string,
    "exercises" : [assigned_exercise, assigned_exercise]
}
```

* `type` will be an integer reflecting Exercise Phase Type enumeration as defined in Appendix
* `assigned_exercise` will be an Assigned Exercise as defined in Appendix

### Assigned Exercise

* `assigned_exercise` will be of the following schema:

```
{
    "name" : string,
    "display_name" : string,
    "library_id" : string,
    "description" : string,
    "youtube_id" : null,
    "bilateral" : boolean,
    "seconds_per_rep" : integer,
    "seconds_per_set" : integer,
    "unit_of_measure" : string,
    "position_order" : integer,
    "duration_efficient" : integer,
    "duration_complete" : integer,
    "duration_comprehensive" : integer,
    "goal_text" : string,
    "equipment_required" : [string, string],
    "dosages" : [exercise_dosage, exercise_dosage]
}
```

* `library_id` is a string indicating the ID of the assigned exercise
* `exercise_dosage` will be an Exercise Dosage as defined in this Appendix.
* `unit_of_measure` will be the string representation of the Unit of Measure enumeration as defined in this Appendix (e.g. "seconds", "count", etc.). 

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Exercise Dosage

`exercise_dosage` will be of the following schema:

```
{
    "goal" : goal,
    "priority" : string,
    "efficient_reps_assigned" : integer,
    "efficient_sets_assigned" : integer,
    "complete_reps_assigned" : integer,
    "complete_sets_assigned" : integer,
    "comprehensive_reps_assigned" : integer,
    "comprehensive_sets_assigned" : integer,
    "default_efficient_reps_assigned" : integer,
    "default_efficient_sets_assigned" : integer,
    "default_complete_reps_assigned" : integer,
    "default_complete_sets_assigned" : integer,
    "default_comprehensive_reps_assigned" : integer,
    "default_comprehensive_sets_assigned" : integer,
    "ranking" : integer
}
```

* `goal` will be a Goal as defined in this Appendix

### Goal

* `goal` will have the following schema 

```
{
     "text" : string,
     "priority" : integer,
     "goal_type" : integer
           
}
```

* `goal_type` will be an integer reflecting the Athlete Goal Type enumeration as defined in Appendix

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

### Enumerations

#### ActivityType
``` 
    movement_integration_prep = 0
    active_rest = 1
    active_recovery = 2
    cold_water_immersion = 3
    ice = 4
```

#### ExercisePhaseType
```
    inhibit = 0
    static_stretch = 1
    active_stretch = 2
    dynamic_stretch = 3
    isolated_activate = 4
    static_integrate = 5
    dynamic_integrate = 6
```
#### AthleteGoalType:
```
    pain = 0
    sore = 1
    high_load = 2
    preempt_sport = 3
    preempt_personalized_sport = 4
    preempt_corrective = 5
    corrective = 6
    injury_history = 7
    counter_overreaching = 8
    respond_risk = 9
    on_request = 10
    asymmetric_session = 20
    asymmetric_pattern = 21
```

#### Unit of Measure
```
    seconds = 0
    count = 1
    yards = 2
    feet = 3
    meters = 4
    miles = 5
    kilometers = 6
    calories = 7
```

#### SportName
```
    basketball = 0
    baseball = 1
    softball = 2
    cycling = 3
    field_hockey = 4
    football = 5
    general_fitness = 6
    golf = 7
    gymnastics = 8
    skate_sports = 9
    lacrosse = 10
    rowing = 11
    rugby = 12
    diving = 13
    soccer = 14
    pool_sports = 15
    tennis = 16
    distance_running = 17
    sprints = 18
    jumps = 19
    throws = 20
    volleyball = 21
    wrestling = 22
    weightlifting = 23
    track_field = 24
    archery = 25
    australian_football = 26
    badminton = 27
    bowling = 28
    boxing = 29
    cricket = 30
    curling = 31
    dance = 32
    equestrian_sports = 33
    fencing = 34
    fishing = 35
    handball = 36
    hockey = 37
    martial_arts = 38
    paddle_sports = 39
    racquetball = 40
    sailing = 41
    snow_sports = 42
    squash = 43
    surfing_sports = 44
```
```
    swimming = 45
    table_tennis = 46
    water_polo = 47
    cross_country_skiing = 48
    downhill_skiing = 49
    kick_boxing = 50
    snowboarding = 51
    endurance = 52
    power = 53
    speed_agility = 54
    strength = 55
    cross_training = 56
    elliptical = 57
    functional_strength_training = 58
    hiking = 59
    hunting = 60
    mind_and_body = 61
    play = 62
    preparation_and_recovery = 63
    stair_climbing = 64
    traditional_strength_training = 65
    walking = 66
    water_fitness = 67
    yoga = 68
    barre = 69
    core_training = 70
    flexibility = 71
    high_intensity_interval_training = 72
    jump_rope = 73
    pilates = 74
    stairs = 75
    step_training = 76
    wheelchair_walk_pace = 77
    wheelchair_run_pace = 78
    taichi = 79
    mixed_cardio = 80
    hand_cycling = 81
    climbing = 82
    other = 83
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>


### Body Parts

#### Side

```
    none_unilateral = 0
    left = 1
    right = 2
```

#### Joints
The following reportable body parts are considered joints.  Allowable Sides (0, 1, 2) are provided in brackets following the body part.
```
    shoulder = 1 {1, 2}
    hip = 4 {1, 2}
    elbow = 19 {1, 2}
    wrist = 20 {1, 2}
    knee = 7 {1, 2}
    ankle = 9 {1, 2}
    foot = 10 {1, 2}
```

#### Ligaments
The following reportable body parts are considered ligaments. Allowable Sides (0, 1, 2) are provided in brackets following the body part.
```
    it_band = 11 {1, 2}
    it_band_lateral_knee = 27 {1, 2}
    achilles = 17 {1, 2}
```

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

#### Muscles
The following reportable body parts are considered muscles. Allowable Sides (0, 1, 2) are provided in brackets following the body part.
```
    chest = 2 {1, 2}
    abdominals = 3 {0}
    groin = 5 {1, 2}
    quads = 6 {1, 2}
    shin = 8 {1, 2}
    lower_back = 12 {0}
    glutes = 14 {1, 2}
    hamstrings = 15 {1, 2}
    calves = 16 {1, 2}
    upper_back_neck = 18 {1, 2}
    lats = 21 {1, 2}
    biceps = 22 {1, 2}
    triceps = 23 {1, 2}
    forearm = 24 {1, 2}
    core_stabilizers = 25 {1, 2}
    hip_flexor = 28 {1, 2}
    deltoid = 29 {1, 2}
    deep_rotators_hip = 30 {1, 2}
    obliques = 31 {1, 2}
    rotator_cuff = 119 {1, 2}
    serratus_anterior = 125 {1, 2}
```
###### Last Modified: March 24, 2020

