# FathomAI - Plans API (v 4.4.0)
## Technical Summary


### Overview

This technical summary provides prospective third party clients of __Fathom's Plans API__ with a brief summary of the data returned from the service along with the technical and data requirements.  This document is not a substitute for the full API specification.

### Daily Plan

The plans service generates a __Daily Plan__ for an athlete based on one or both of the following data elements:

* __Daily Readiness__ - information about the user's "readiness" and pain/soreness for a given day
* __Post-Workout__ - information about a user's workout session along with their RPE and pain/soreness following the workout

A Daily Plan can be created with as little as one of the above data elements; however, as this information is gathered over time, Fathom's analytics will also use historical patterns in pain/soreness and workouts to influence Daily Plan creation.



A __Daily Plan__ provides a personalized, research-driven recovery plan for an athlete.  A plan may consist of one or more modalities, targeting one or more recovery goals Fathom analytics identifies for the athlete.

Modalities such as __Active Rest (Before Training)__, __Active Rest (After Training)__, and __Cooldown__ include a series of recommended exercises, personalized for the athlete that day.  These exercises are provided in a sequence consistent with sports science research.
 
Other modalities do not include exercises but are assigned to a plan based on athlete needs.  These modalities include __heat__, __ice__ and __cold water immersion__.

Recommended dosages are also provided for each exercise/modality.  These dosages are associated with three different active times for the entire exercise sequence (__Efficient__, __Complete__, __Comprehensive__), depending upon the time the athlete has available.  Dosages are also provided by goal, allowing the athlete to further customize their recovery.


### Technical and Data Requirements

#### Terminology

The terminology of [RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt) (specifically __must__, __should__, __may__ and their negatives) applies.  The word __will__, when applied to the Plans API ("the API"), has the same meaning as __must__.

#### Protocol

The API supports communication over HTTPS only.

#### Encoding

The API supports communication using JSON encoding only.  The client __must__ submit the headers `Content-Type: application/json` and `Accept: application/json` for all requests.  Failure to do so __will__ result in a `415 Unsupported Media Type` response.  The API __will__ include the header `Content-Type: application/json` with its response.

#### Authentication

Unless otherwise specified, the endpoints in the API are authenticated by a JWT bearer token.  Two token sources are accepted:

* Tokens generated by AWS Cognito and acquired as part of authentication to the __Fathom Users API__;
* Tokens generated by third party clients using an agreed upon definition with Fathom and based on a public/private key pair

The client __must__ submit the header `Authorization: <JWT>` with all requests. Failure to do so, or submitting an invalid or expired JWT, __will__ result in a `401 Unauthorized` response.  

#### General responses

In addition to the AWS API Gateway responses and the specific responses for each endpoint, the server __may__ respond with one of the following HTTP responses:

* `400 Bad Request` with `Status` header equal to `InvalidSchema`, if the JSON body of the request does not match the requirements of the endpoint.
* `403 Forbidden` with `Status` header equal to `Forbidden`, if the user is not allowed to perform the requested action.
* `404 Unknown` with `Status` header equal to `UnknownEndpoint`, if an invalid endpoint was requested.

### Schema

#### Simple

The following simple types __may__ be used in responses:

* `string`, `number`: as defined in the [JSON Schema](http://json-schema.org) standard.
* `Uuid`: a `string` matching the regular expression `^[0-9a-f]{8}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{12}$`, that is, the string representation of an [RFC 4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122) UUID.
* `Datetime`: a `string` matching the regular expression `/\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}T\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}(Z|+\d{2}:\d{2})/` and representing a date and time in full [ISO 8601](https://www.iso.org/iso-8601-date-and-time-format.html) format.

#### Daily Readiness

##### Required Data Elements

The following data elements are required when following the __Daily Readiness__ pathway to __Daily Plan__ generation.

* `date_time` __should__ reflect the local time that survey was taken
* `soreness` __should__ reflect a list of body parts(`sore_part`) with pain or soreness. Length __could__ be 0.

`sore_part` __should__ include the following:

* `body_part` __should__ be an integer reflecting BodyPart enum of the body part with pain/soreness
* `severity` __should__ be an integer 0, 1, 3 or 5 indicating the severity of the pain/soreness
* `movement` __should__ be an integer 0, 1, 3 or 5 indicating how much movement is restricted 
* `side` __should__ be an integer, either 0 (both sides/non-bilateral), 1 (left) or 2 (right)
* `pain` __should__ be a boolean to indicate whether it's pain or soreness.

Note: Fathom can customize the processing of `severity` and `movement` data upon request to accommodate third-party systems that only report `severity` related measures.

##### Optional Data Elements

The following data elements are not required to generate a plan using the __Daily Readiness__ pathway, but enhance the customization of the plan for the user.

* `sleep_quality` __should__ be an integer between 1 and 10 or null
* `readiness` __should__ be an integer between 1 and 10 or null
* `sessions` __should__ be a list of workout sessions.
* `sleep_data` __should__ be a list of sleep_events.
* `sessions_planned` __should__ be a boolean representing whether the user plans to train again that day.
* `health_sync_date` is __optional__ and only provided if one of the sessions is obtained from Apple's HealthKit app

`session` __if present__, __should__ follow the requirements outlined in the __Post-Workout__ pathway


`sleep_event` __if present__, __should__ include the following:

* `start_date` __should__ indicate the date/time start of sleep/in bed
* `end_date` __should__ indicate the date/time end of sleep/in bed


#### Post-Workout
##### Required Data Elements

The following data elements are required when following the __Post-Workout__ pathway to __Daily Plan__ generation.

* `health_sync_date` is __optional__ and only provided if one of the sessions is obtained from health app
* `session` __should__ be of the following schema
* `sessions_planned` __should__ be a boolean representing whether the user plans to train again that day.

`session` data elements
* `event_date` __should__ reflect the start time of the session (Apple HealthKit data) or default date (manually logged session)
* `end_date` is __optional__ parameter that reflects the end time of the session for health data
* `session_type` __should__ be an integer reflecting SessionType enumeration.
* `sport_name` __should__ be an integer reflecting SportName enumeration.
* `duration` __should__ be in minutes and reflect the duration which the user confirmed (health data) or entered (manually logged session).
* `calories` __if present__, __should__ be calorie information obtained from health workout _(only needed for health workout)_
* `distance` __if present__, __should__ be distance information obtained from health workout _(only needed for health workout)_
* `source` __if present__, __should__ be 0 for manually logged session and 1 for health data
* `deleted` __if present__, __should__ be true if the user deletes the workout detected from health app
* `ignored` __if present__, __should__ be true for short walking workouts.
* `hr_data` __if present__, __should__ be the heart rate data associated with the health workout. each hr will have `startDate`, `endDate` and `value` _(only needed for health workout)_
* `description` is __optional__ parameter to provide short description of the session they're adding
* `post-session-survey` __should__ follow requirements below

`post-session survey` data elements
* `event_date` __should__ reflect the local date and time when the survey (associated with the workout) was completed
* `RPE` __should__ be an integer between 1 and 10 indicating the _Rate of Perceived Exertion_ of the athlete during the session
* `soreness` __should__ follow the same definition as in _Daily Readiness_





